---
layout: post
title: "[PS] LeetCode-338"
subtitle: "Problem Solving: 338-Count Bits"
categories: PS
tags: [PS]
---

### Introduction
Notes during problem solving.<br>

### Problem Description
Given an integer `n`, return *an array* `ans` *of length* `n + 1` *such that for each* `i` (`0 <= i <= n`), `ans[i]` *is the **number of*** `1`***'s** in the binary representation of* `i`.

### Code
```
void memoize_bit_count(int *arr, int arr_length);
int *countBits(int n, int *returnSize);

int *countBits(int n, int *returnSize) {
    int arr_length = n + 1;
    *returnSize = arr_length;

    int *bit_count = (int *) malloc(sizeof(int) * arr_length);
    bit_count = (int *) memset((void *) bit_count, 0, sizeof(int) * arr_length);

    memoize_bit_count(bit_count, arr_length);

    return bit_count;
}

void memoize_bit_count(int *arr, int arr_length) {
    for (int i = 1; i < arr_length; i++) {
        arr[i] = (i & 1) + arr[i >> 1];
    }
}
```

### Solution Explanation
After allocating memory to `bit_count`, it sets all values to 0 using `memset()`.<br>
Then, using memoization, the bit count is incremented.<br>
The `memoize_bit_count()` function adds `& 1` (i.e. x & 0x001) to a pre-obtained value.<br>
For example, 0x101 (i.e. 5) is calculated by (0x101 & 0x001) + (0x010).<br>
0x010 was already calculated using the following equation, (0x010 & 0x001) + (0x001). Which is 0 + 1.<br>
Therefore, arr[0x101] is 2.<br>

### Code Explanation
* Syntax<br>
While reading the C++ book, "C++ from the GROUND UP", I found out why `*` were written before the variable not the type.<br>
`int* x, y`, this code may seem like a declaration of two `int*` types. However, this declaration creates an `int*` type `x` and an `int` type `y`.<br>
Due to these ambiguity issues, `*` derefences are written before the variable.<br>
<br>
I thought a lot about whether `sizeof(int) * arr_length` or `arr_length * sizeof(int)` would be better.<br>
The natural one would be the latter one because it represents the main unit, then the multiplier of the unit.<br>
However, in the perspective of coding, putting the former first would make it slightly simpler.<br>
For example, in some few situations, the code may require just the `sizeof()` operation.<br>
Also, the variable's value is determined before the statement (so debugging it would happen before the statement) but the `sizeof()` would be requeired to be monitored on the statement.<br>
That is why putting the more critical one forward (두괄식) one can help the debugging process.<br>
* Functions<br>
	* `countBits`: calls the process. Initializes the necessary memory and calls functions. Returns the array of bit counts.<br>
    * `memoize_bit_count`: counts the bits in the numbers, 0 ~ n. Uses memoization, bottom-up method.<br>
* Variables<br>
    * `n`: given max element of the array.<br>
	* `arr_length`: length of the `bit_count` array.<br>
    * `returnSize`: "out" variable that holds the length of the array. Used in the caller of `countBits`.<br>
    * `bit_count`: array of bit counts from 0 ~ n.<br>

### Conclusion
Third entry of my **[PS]** series.<br>
The logic was quite simple. When I got the hang of it, the rest came easily.<br>
However, there was a problem with initializing `bit_count`. Other codes used `calloc` to allocate and intialize at once.<br>
I wanted to separate these steps so I used `malloc` and `memset()`.<br>
In the process of calling `memset()`, I passed the `size_t n` parameter with the value `arr_length`.<br>
This didn't work because the parameter specified the `n` bytes of the memory area.<br>
An `int` is 4 bytes so it requires the `n` value to be multiplied by 4. I verified inserting `4` instead of `sizeof(int)` works.<br>
