---
layout: post
title: "[ISEL] ISEL Report 04/09/23"
subtitle: "Report of lab work."
categories: ISEL
tags: [SE]
---
### 23-1

#### 04/09/2023

How do humans know they don't know?

I remembered a part of a video clip I watched some time ago. It was about how computers (as expected..) "think". The speaker gave an example, "Do you know the capital of (just an example) Morocco?". Us humans "know" right away the absence of knowledge. I asked ChatGPT what it thought of this:

> Yes, that's correct. Unlike computers, humans are capable of **recognizing gaps in their knowledge** and realizing when they don't know something. This is because humans have the ability to reason and think critically, which allows us to make judgments and draw conclusions based on **incomplete** or **ambiguous** information.
>
> When presented with a question or statement that we don't know the answer to, we can quickly recognize that we don't have the relevant knowledge or information to provide an accurate response. This may prompt us to seek out additional information or to admit that we don't know the answer.
>
> In contrast, computers rely solely on their programmed knowledge and data to provide responses to questions. While they may be able to search through large amounts of data quickly, they may not always be able to recognize when they don't have enough information to provide an accurate answer. This is one of the limitations of artificial intelligence and machine learning, which are still developing fields in which researchers are trying to replicate some of the cognitive processes of human thinking and reasoning.

It was also cool to see it answered using the word "we" in various places.

I guess human minds are wired different. Numerous links pointing in all directions, and increasing these connections will increase our depth of knowledge. This connects to what Prof. Hong said, "know". It doesn't matter if we can't implement it right now, just having heard of it makes all the difference.

Connecting this idea to my current research, SPI, 

계속 고민, 연구에대한 생각 - 이게 맞는 자세?

further - 수도를 모르는 나라 이름 구하면, 똑같이 빨리 나온다. 인과추론?
