---
layout: post
title: "[PS] LeetCode"
subtitle: "Problem Solving: 1486-XOR Operation in an Array"
categories: PS
tags: [PS]
---

### Introduction
Notes during problem solving.

### Motivation
After taking Operating Systems, I realized I needed more practice using C.<br>
Usually, I don't like to do repetitive tasks, but desperate times call for desperate measures.

### Preperation
Decided on the topics I will focus on solving first.
* Bit manipulation
* File I/O
* Pointers

### Problem Description
You are given an integer `n` and an integer `start`.
Define an array `nums` where `nums[i] = start + 2 * i` **(0-indexed)** and *n == nums.length*.<br>
Return *the bitwise XOR of all elements of* `nums`.

### Code
```
int xorOperation(int n, int start);
void increment_nums(int *nums, int n, int offset);
int xor_num(int *nums, int n);

int
xorOperation (int n, int start)
{
	int *nums;
	nums = (int *) malloc(sizeof(int) * n);

	increment_nums(nums, n, start);

	int xor_result = xor_nums(nums, n);

	free(nums);

	return xor_result;
}

void
increment_nums (int *nums, int n, int offset)
{
	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		nums[i] = offset + (2 * i);
	}
}

int
xor_nums(int *nums, int n)
{
	int accumulate_xor = 0;

	for (int i = 0; i < n; i++) {
		accumulate_xor = accumulate_xor ^ nums[i];
	}

	return accumulate_xor;
}
```

### Solution Explanation
After allocating memory for the int array, it first increments the array by the given equation.
* This equation first gives an offset, *start*, then increments the consecutive values by 2.
* This makes the values constantly even or odd.
Then calling the `xor_nums()` function, it simply accumulates the XOR'd values.

### Code Explanation
* Syntax<br>
Followed the [GNU Coding Standards](https://www.gnu.org/prep/standards/html_node/Writing-C.html).
* Functions<br>
`xorOperation()`: it was the default/fixed name given from LeetCode. I would have changed it to `xor_operations()` to match snake case.<br>
`increment_nums()`: separated the incrementing process from the driver function. Along with `xor_nums()`, I named the function with the syntax, **operation**_**array_name**.<br>
`xor_nums()`: iteratively apply XOR operations. Return the accumulated value.<br>
* Varaibles<br>
`xor_result`: holds the entire XOR operation in the array result.<br>
`offset`: initially `start`, but changed to `offset` in the function. As the operation is more like an offset.<br>
`accumulate_xor`: variable that accumulates the calculated XOR operation values.<br>
* Etc.<br>
*other values were pre-defined, and used for consistency*.

### Conclusion
I'm really thrilled to continue this series.<br>
Throughout this semester(23-1), I learned how to keep consistency and grit.<br>
Most importantly, I earned confidence in my grit. Whether the field is coding, exercising, or etc.<br>
<br>
Just like my **[Study]** logs, recording my thoughts instead of just the facts seems better.<br>
I think this is because it helps me organize what I've learned throughout the years.<br>
* I'm planning on writing a log about this.<br>

Thanks for reading.